---
num: "h02"
desc: "HFJ 5,6"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-06-23 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-06-24 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read <span data-hfj="5"></span> and <span data-hfj="6"></span>, along with the online reading notes that go with those chapters. Then, do the problems below.
* Note that you may also need to look back at <span data-hfj="4"></span> (or even at earlier chapters) for some problems.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Write a few lines of code that demonstrate how to take a integer value that is in a `String`, and convert it to an integer value in an `int` variable.  You can find an example of this in 
<span data-hfj="5" />
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) (From <span data-hfj="5" />)  Assume that `n` is an `int` variable that has already been assigned some value greater than or equal to 1.    Write a few lines of Java code that declare a new `int` variable `x` and assign it a random integer between `0` and `n-1` (inclusive, uniformly distributed over all n possible values.)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Frequently asked "job interview" question that comes from somewhere in  <span data-hfj="4" /> or <span data-hfj="5" />: briefly explain: part of Object-Oriented Programming is "encapsulation".  What is "encapsulation"?  
</li>

<li> Review the difference between plain old java arrays (as in Chapter 4) and the `ArrayList<T>` type (as in Chapter 6).  Assume that a class called `Student` exists.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Write a line of java that makes a  plain old Java array (Chapter 4 style) of `Student` references of size 5.  (Don't allocate the `Student` objects, just the array of references, initially null).    
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">(10 pts) Now, write a line of java that makes an `ArrayList<Student>` of `Student` references (Chapter 6 style).   Capacity is unimportant---choose 5, or take the default, whatever you like.   (Don't allocate the `Student` objects, just the `ArrayList<Student>`, initially empty). 
</li>

</ol>

</li>



</ol>
