---
num: "h04"
desc: "HFJ 9,10,11: Constructors, Statics, Exceptions"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-06-28 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-06-29 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

*Reading Assignment:* 

* Read <span data-hfj="9"></span>, <span data-hfj="10"></span>, and <span data-hfj="11"></span>along with the online reading notes that go with those chapters. Then, do the problems below.   Refer back to previous chapters as needed.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}



<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> 
(20 pts) From <span data-hfj="11">Chapter 11</span>: Assume that s is an object of type <code>Student</code>, and that there is a method 
`public void registerFor(String courseNum)` that might throw the `NoSuchUCSBCourseException`. 

Write a segment of Java code that will:
* call `s.registerFor(someCourse);`
* writes `"Success"` on `System.out` if the registration succeeded (i.e. that exception doesn't happen)
* will write `"Sorry " + someCourse + "does not exist"` to `System.out` if that exception occurs.

<div style="font-family: Arial Narrow, sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">
Hint: this question is designed to see if you understand how to use `try`/`catch`.   On an exam, you would not get this hint.
</div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;" markdown="1"> 
(10 pts) From <span data-hfj="11">Chapter 11</span>: Write the code that creates a new kind of exception called <code>BadSuitException</code>.  This exception might be thrown, for example, by a program that expects a character that is one of 'H','D','C','S' for Hearts, Diamonds, Clubs and Spades when it encounters an illegal value (one other than 'H', 'D','C' or 'S'.)   <code>BadSuitException</code> should be a subclass of <code>IllegalArgumentException</code>.   Write ONLY the code that creates the new kind of exception. 

<div style="font-family: Arial Narrow, sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">
<b>HINT:</b> If you do this properly, it should be *very* short.   The best answer is a single line.  There are also answers that are two lines, or at most five.   If you write more than five lines, you are likely on the wrong track.   On an exam, you would not get this hint.
</div>

</li>

</ol>
