---
num: "h10"
desc: "Review from Livecoded Parser Session"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-07-14 09:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-07-19 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

This homework concerns the parser which was livecoded in class, which is available online here: [https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-livecoded-parser](https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-livecoded-parser).  Some of these questions may require Google.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(10 pts) Why can't the <tt>this</tt> reserved word be used in a <tt>static</tt> method?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(10 pts) Assume we are just starting to write the parser for an arithmetic expression language very similar to the one in the livecoded parser.  Of the following three tests, circle the one which would be best to start off with (worth 2 points), along with your reasoning (worth 8 points).  Your reasoning should include information about what it means if the test fails.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(10 pts) In general, if all tests for a given program pass, this does not guarantee that the program is correct.  Name one reason why the program might still be incorrect.
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(20 pts) Consider the code in the box on the right.  As shown, this code will catch <tt>FooException</tt> without doing anything with it.  Catching an exception and failing to do anything with it is generally considered bad practice, as this often means that a particular kind of error is silently ignored (specifically, a <tt>FooException</tt> in the provided code snippet).

However, in the livecoded parser, there are multiple places where instances of <tt>ParseException</tt> are similarly caught without any corresponding code in the <tt>catch</tt> block.  Why is this considered correct behavior for the parser?  Your answer should include what it means to throw a <tt>ParseException</tt>.

<div style="width: 20em; float:right; border: 1px solid black;" markdown="1">
```java
public static void foo()
  throws FooException {
  ... // implementation not shown
}
public static void main(String[] args) {
  try {
    foo()
  } catch (FooException e) {
    // do nothing
  }
```
</div>

</li>

</ol>

<div style="display:none">
http://UCSB-CS56-M16.github.io/hwk/h10
</div>
