---
num: "h11"
desc: "More Livecoded Parser Review, and the Factory and State Patterns"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-07-15 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-07-20 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

Part of this homework concerns the parser which was livecoded in class, which is available online here: [https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-livecoded-parser](https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-livecoded-parser).

The rest concerns <span data-hfdp="3">HFDP Chapter 3</span> and
<span data-hfdp="10">HFDP Chapter 10</span>.  Please read those chapters, 
then answer these questions.


<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(12 pts) The code in the box to the right does not use <tt>final</tt>.  Circle variable definitions which could be marked with <tt>final</tt>.  Each correctly identified variable is worth three points.

<div style="width: 25em; float:right; border: 1px solid black;" markdown="1">
```java
public class Foo {
  public boolean b;
  public Foo(boolean b) {
    this.b = b;
  }
  public static void bar(boolean b) {
    Foo f = new Foo(b);
    f.b = !b;
  }
}
```
</div>

</li>

<li>
Methods in the livecoded parser keep track of the current position in the input by passing around an <tt>int</tt> parameter.
That is, methods take an <tt>int</tt> position to start from and return an updated <tt>int</tt> position reflecting where to resume parsing the input from.

An alternative approach here is to have a single <tt>int</tt> instance variable which keeps track of the current position in the input.  As parsing proceeds, this variable can be updated to reflect position changes.

<ul>
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">(10 pts) Name one advantage of the current approach, based on passing around the <tt>int</tt> parameter.</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">(10 pts) Name one advantage of the alternative approach, based on mutating a single <tt>int</tt> instance variable.</li>
</ul>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) A Java constructor, invoked with `new`, and a method of a Factory object (one created using the Factory design pattern) can both be used to create instances of new objects.   What is the situation in which a Factory object is preferred to just instantiating a class with `new`?   That is, what problem does the factory design pattern solve?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Explain how the
Factory design pattern and the Abstract Factory design pattern are different.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">
In HFDP chapter 10, the running example with the gumball machine initially uses an <tt>int</tt> to keep track of what state the machine is in, as opposed to using the state pattern.

<ul>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(8 pts) Name two advantages of applying the state pattern to this example
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">
(5 pts) Name one <b>disadvantage</b> of applying the state pattern to this example
</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li markdown="1">
(25 pts) The provided code for the **full** parser you are working with in lab05 is available here: [https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-parsing-assignment](https://github.com/UCSB-CS56-M16/cs56-parsing-assignment).
This code uses a variant of the state pattern in tokenization, specifically through the `TokenizerState` interface.

In the space below, draw out the finite state diagram corresponding to how this tokenizer works.
States should be labeled with the name of the class which implements the state.
Transitions between states should be labeled with the condition under which the transition occurs, which can be derived by looking at the implementations of the `nextState` method.
For example, a possible transition is "`curChar` is a digit", or "`curChar` is 'q'".
Your diagram should show all possible transitions, **including** transitions which start and end in the same state (i.e., self-loops).
For guidance on how this diagram should look overall, you may want to consult the diagram for the gumball machine near the end of chapter 10 in HFDP.

</li>

</ol>

<div style="display:none">
http://UCSB-CS56-M16.github.io/hwk/h11
</div>
