---
num: "h13"
desc: "Threads and Sockets (Networking) (HFJ 15)"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-07-19 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-07-21 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

<style>
  div.circle_one table  {border: none; width:100%;}
  div.circle_one table * td {border: none; padding-left:4em;}
</style>

Please read <span data-hfj="15">HFJ Chapter 15</span>, then answer these questions.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}


<li> What does it mean for a thread to be:

<ol>
 <li style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (4 pts) new  </li>
 <li style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (4 pts) runnable  </li>
 <li style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (4 pts) running  </li>
 <li style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (4 pts) blocked  </li>
</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (3 pts)  When you create a new thread which of these four states above does it go into? (circle one):

<div markdown="1" class="circle_one">

| new  | runnable | running | blocked |
|      |          |         |         |

</div>
</li>

<li> (3 pts) When you call the .start() method of a thread, which of the four states above does it go into? (circle one): 

<div markdown="1" class="circle_one">

| new  | runnable | running | blocked |
|      |          |         |         |

</div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (4 pts)  What puts a thread into the new state? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (4 pts) What puts a thread into the runnable state? 
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (4 pts)  What puts a thread into the running state? 
</li>

<li>  Give two examples of events that can move a thread into a blocked state.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (3 pts)  
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:3em;"> (3 pts)   
</li>
</ol>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (5 pts) You are creating a socket by calling `new Socket("127.0.0.1",20000)` and you get a `BindException`. What does this mean, and what should you do to try to fix this? (Hint: see the reading notes online at <span data-hfj="15">HFJ Chapter 15</span>--linked to from the online version of this Homework assignment.)
</li>
 
<li>Briefly describe the role of each of these in setting up communication over the network between two running Java programs

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">
(5 pts) an IP address
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;">
(5 pts) a port number
</li>

<li> 
Suppose you need to choose a port number to listen for connections on.
<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:2em;">
(5 pts) What is the range of numbers that you should always avoid?
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:2em;">
(5 pts) What is the highest number that a port number can possibly be?
</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li markdown="1"> (20 pts) Read in Chapter 15 about how you read data from a `Socket` and write data to a `Socket`. Then, in the space below, write a class `rawPrintFromCSWebserver` with a `main` method that will:

* connect to IP address 128.111.27.14 (www.cs.ucsb.edu) on port 80 (the web server port)
* send the following string over the connection: `"GET / \n"` (don't include the quote marks)
* read 20 lines of text, and print each of them out on `System.out`
* close the connection

Suggestion: try to write this by hand first, then type it in on the system and test it out. You should get the first 20 lines that show up if you did a "view source" on the CS dept. home page. Note: if that IP address doesn't work, type this at the Unix prompt and see what IP address comes up:  `telnet www.cs.ucsb.edu 80`<br>
Use `^]`  (Ctrl-close-bracket) to get back to a `telnet>` prompt, and type `quit` to quit.

</li>

</ol>
