---
num: "ic00"
desc: "In-Class: Pair Partner Matching"
ready: true
assigned: 2016-06-28 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-06-28 10:50:00.00-7:00
---

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">

(20 pts) Write a brief description of any previous experience you have
with Java, if any (e.g. a high school course, working on your own)

If none, that's ok too.

The description of previous experience is helpful in guiding people
while choosing pair partners. It works best--i.e. your learning is
maximized--when experienced people are with experienced people, and
Java newbies are with Java newbies.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">

(20 pts) Write a brief description of any previous experience you have with writing code:

* for someone OTHER than yourself, i.e. the end user of the code is NOT you

* NOT for a class or school credit of any kind.

If none, that's ok too.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1">

(20 pts)  You may be taking this course because it is a "requirement" for your major.    Apart from that, do you have any specific goals for this course, i.e. what are you hoping to get out of it?

If you come with "no expectations" that's ok too, but note that we
often have a more successful experience when we define up front what
we hope to accomplish.   It is also good to pair with someone that has 
similar goals to our own.

<div class="pagebreak" />

</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:2em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) In academic classes, the most important factor in "pair" success is often scheduling.   So: find two times that you and your partner can meet outside of class for at least two hours to work on CS56 on two different days.

Ideally: Since the deadlines in this class fall on Wednesdays and Fridays, ideally one time should be between Wednesday 5pm and Friday 5pm, and the other should be between Friday 5pm and the following Wednesday 5pm.  But if you can't do that *perfectly*, at least try to space out the times you meet.  Also agree on where you will meet: CSIL is one options, or you can supply your own laptops and meet anywhere with an internet connection.


<div class="handwriting-table" style="width:70%;" markdown="1">

| Day          | Time              | Location           |
|--------------|-------------------|--------------------|
|              |                   |                    |
|--------------|-------------------|--------------------|

</div>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">

(10 pts) Now, find someone IN YOUR SAME DISCUSSION SECTION* that seems
to have similar answers to your own.  Ideally, that other person will
have similar levels of Java and coding experience (whether that's
none, a small amount, or a lot of it.)  Ideally, they will have
similar goals to yours in terms of what they want to get out of the
course.

* Note: for M16 the person does not have to be registered in the same
discussion section AS LONG AS both of you are willing to commit to coming
for the full three hours 9am-11:50am on Fridays.

Fill in information about both you and your pair partner here.  The third line is in case of a "trio" (which we
only will have if there is an odd number of studnets), or in you need to cross out a line a rewrite it.

<div class="handwriting-table" style="width:100%;" markdown="1">

| First and Last Name          | Me<br>or<br>Pair? | Umail Address      | github.com<br>username |
|------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------|------------------------|
|                              |                   |                    |                        |
|                              |                   |                    |                        |
|                              |                   |                    |                        |

</div>


</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">


(5 pts) Now write down something interesting about yourself not related to
computing&mdash;something you are willing to share publicly.  You'll
share this with your pair partner.  If you already know your pair
partner from outside of class, consider sharing something they
probably don't already know.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1">

(5 pts) What did your pair partner write?   Exchange answers with them so that you can learn something about each other.  Write a summary of their answer here.


</li>


</ol>